# README
Steven J. Pierce

<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Pierce.AARUG2024: Reproducibility Materials For My Ann Arbor R User’s Group 2024 Presentation

<!-- badges: start -->

[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#experimental)
[![Project Status: WIP – Initial development is in progress, but there
has not yet been a stable, usable release suitable for the
public.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/wip.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#wip)
<!-- badges: end -->

This repository holds materials for one of my conference presentations
(Pierce, 2024, November 14). Its primary purpose is for me to use
version control tools while developing my slides, but its secondary
purposes include distributing the slides to my audience and
demonstrating how to use Quarto to create slides. I plan to make the
repository public after delivering the presentation.

## Assumptions

There are two different types of users of this repository: myself and my
audience. I assume most of my audience just wants [the final
slides](https://github.com/sjpierce/Pierce.AARUG2024/Slides.html), but
some may want to see exactly how they were created by examining other
parts of the repository.

Since there are no other contributors, I am omitting details that may
otherwise be useful to collaborators. However, here is a link to my web
page on [software for reproducible research with
R](https://sjpierce.github.io/rr_software.html). This presentation uses
the Quarto extension called `reveal-header`
(https://github.com/shafayetShafee/reveal-header). Installing that
created the `_extensions/` subfolder here.

## Repository Structure and Contents

The structure for the repository is shown in the outline below, where
folder names and file names are `highlighted like this` and comments are
in normal text. The repository is set up as an [RStudio
project](https://support.rstudio.com/hc/en-us/articles/200526207-Using-RStudio-Projects).

- `Pierce.AARUG2024/`: This is the root folder for the repository.
  - `.git/`: This hidden folder is used by Git. Leave it alone!
  - `.quarto/`: This hidden folder may be created by Quarto to hold
    temporary files. Do not edit or delete any of these files unless you
    know what you are doing! This folder is not tracked by Git.
  - `.Rproj.user/`: This hidden folder is used by Rstudio. Leave it
    alone!
  - `_extensions/`: This folder contains files for Quarto extensions
    used by my presentation slides.
  - `graphics/`: This folder stores `.jpg` and `.png` graphics files
    used in my slides.
  - `.gitignore`: This file tells Git what files to ignore and omit from
    synchronizing with the main repository on GitHub.
  - `_quarto.yml`: This is a Quarto metadata file containing
    project-level YAML code that will be inherited by Quarto scripts in
    this folder or its subfolders.  
  - `apa-numeric-superscript-brackets.csl`: This is a citation style
    language file for the Publication Manual of the American
    Psychological Association, 7th edition. It can be used by Quarto to
    format references. This one shows in-text citations as superscripted
    numeric values in brackets. The reference list is numbered and
    sorted according to the order entries were cited.
  - `apa-numeric-superscript.csl`: This is a citation style language
    file for the Publication Manual of the American Psychological
    Association, 7th edition. It can be used by Quarto to format
    references. This one shows in-text citations as superscripted
    numeric values without brackets. The reference list is numbered and
    sorted according to the order entries were cited.
  - `apa.csl`: This is a citation style language file for the
    Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association, 7th
    edition. It can be used by Quarto to format references. This is the
    traditional author-year format for in-text citations, with the
    reference list in alphabetical order.
  - `CSTAT_theme.css`: This is custom style sheet file to provide color
    scheme, fonts, etc. for my slides.  
  - `Pierce.AARUG2024.Rproj`: This is an RStudio project file. It
    contains some settings for working with the project in that
    software.
  - `README.md`: This file is obtained by knitting the `README.Rmd` file
    and is used by GitHub to display information about the repository.
    Do not edit it manually: just re-knit `README.Rmd` to update it. In
    R Studio, you can read the formatted version by opening the file and
    clicking the Preview button.
  - `README.Rmd`: This file gives an introduction to the repository.
    Rendering it produces the `README.md` file and opens the preview
    automatically.
  - `references.bib`: This is a BibTeX file containing citation data for
    papers, software, etc. that we want to cite anywhere in our Quarto
    scripts throughout the package.
  - `Slides.html`: This output file contains the actual slides I used to
    give the presentation.
  - `Slides.qmd`: Rendering this Quarto script creates my HTML slides.

## Rendering The Slides

To render my presentation slides from the source code:

- Double-click the `Pierce.AARUG2024.Rproj` file from Windows Explorer
  to open the RStudio project.
- Use RStudio to open the file `Slides.qmd`.
- Click the *Render* button in RStudio.

That will generate the `Slides.html` file containing the final slides.

## References

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent"
entry-spacing="0" line-spacing="2">

<div id="ref-Pierce-RN8655" class="csl-entry">

Pierce, S. J. (2024, November 14). *R and Quarto: A foundation for
generating reproducible reports* \[Invited oral presentation\]. Ann
Arbor R Users’ Group, Ann Arbor, MI, United States.
<https://github.com/sjpierce/Pierce.AARUG2024>

</div>

</div>

## Citing This Repository

Please cite my actual presentation (Pierce, 2024, November 14).
